---
id: 3-4-4
description: Release notes for version 3.4.4
title: Prophecy 3.4.4.x
tags:
  - release notes
  - changelog
  - january
---

January 31, 2025

- Prophecy Python libs version:
- Prophecy Scala libs version:

## Features

### Expanded business rules capabilities

The new [business rule](docs/Spark/functions/business-rules-engine/business-rules-engine.md) capabilities include:

- Setting a timeframe in which business rules should apply.
- Automatic detection of conflicting rule logic.
- Defining multiple output columns per business rule.

### Enhanced Data Explorer experience

The [Data Explorer](docs/Spark/execution/data-explorer.md) has been enhanced in the following ways:

- Filter and sort happens in the frontend. It no longer requires execution in the backend.
- You can search your data using the new **Search** function.
- You can load larger data samples at a time using the new **Selective** data sampling setting.

## Updates

### New custom gem function

When you are [building a custom Spark gem](docs/extensibility/gem-builder/gem-builder-reference.md), you can include the `customOutputSchemaEnabled` function in your gem code to enable or disable to **Custom Schema** toggle by default. This toggle can be found in the **Output** tab of a gem.

### Advanced mode for SQL target model

When you want to [overwrite the default database](docs/SQL/gems/target-models/location.md) for your target model, you can now use **advanced mode** to dynamically populate the field. Rather than inputting a simple string, you can now use functions, values, and variables in your database definition.

### Use multiple unique keys

Previously, when you write a SQL model using an [SCD 2 merge approach](/SQL/gems/target-models/write-options#merge-approach), you could only define one unique key. This update lets you define one or more unique keys.

### Read CSV files with Pandas

When you read a [CSV](docs/Spark/gems/source-target/file/csv.md) file using a Source gem, you can now read the file with Pandas. To do so, you must be using a Sharepoint or SFTP location. This feature is for **Python projects** only.

## Fixes

### Improved performance on UC shared clusters

We have removed some redundancy and have fixed how partial runs execute on Databricks UC shared clusters.

### Allow use of tables with quotes

This fix lets you use Snowflake tables that include quotation marks in the table name.

### Better error detection in Gem Builder

Errors captured from sandbox are now displayed with a stacktrace showing the lines in your code which caused an exception to be thrown.
