---
id: 4-0-0
description: Release notes for version 4.0.0
title: Prophecy 4.0.0.x
tags:
  - release notes
  - changelog
---

April 15, 2025

Starting in Prophecy 4.0.0, our product caters to two audiences: data engineers and business analysts. As we keep making our Spark offerings better for engineers, we're also adding new, easy-to-use tools for business analysts to fulfill a [comprehensive platform approach](https://www.prophecy.io/blog/data-engineers-and-business-data-users-end-the-back-and-forth). While **Prophecy for Analysts** encompasses a completely new SQL-dependent project type, **Prophecy for Engineers** refers to our traditional PySpark/Scala projects.

We shared this release live in our recent customer webinar! See the [recap](#webinar-recap) below.

## Prophecy for Analysts

### Features {#features-analysts}

The following are features available in this release.

- [Prophecy fabrics](/core/prophecy-fabrics/) to accommodate native orchestration with [Prophecy Automate](/getting-started/editions/architecture).

- [Connections](/analysts/connections) to a wide variety of data providers that can be used throughout pipelines and shared with teammates.

- [Prophecy Apps](/analysts/business-applications) to enable non-technical users to run pipelines with built-in guardrails.

- [A new set of gems](/analysts/gems) to let you ingest, transform, parse, clean, and write data in the visual pipeline canvas.

- [Simplified versioning](/analysts/versioning) to streamline your project workflow, while still following Git best practices.

- [Monitoring](/analysts/monitoring) in the Observability page for tracking deployed projects and pipeline schedules.

- [Data profiling](/analysts/data-profile) in the Data Explorer for quick statistics on your data.

- [Collaboration capabilities](/analysts/collaboration) to bridge the gap between teams and speed up time to production.

- [Extensibility features](/analysts/extensibility) to let you build custom components for projects and add additional functionality to Prophecy.

:::note
These features are only available for projects that leverage [Prophecy fabrics](/core/prophecy-fabrics/).
:::

## Prophecy for Engineers

### Features {#features-engineers}

The following are features and improvements available in this release.

- [Data diff](/engineers/data-diff) is a new feature that lets you see if your target data at the end of your pipeline matches your expectations.

- You can now set a specific Spark Config in a [Livy fabric](/enterprise/fabrics/Spark-fabrics/livy) for a job size configuration.

- The [CSV Source gem](/engineers/csv) in Python/PySpark projects now includes a property that lets you skip _n_ number of first or last lines when reading in a CSV file.

- More gems in Python/PySpark projects are now compatible with [Databricks UC clusters](/enterprise/fabrics/Spark-fabrics/databricks/ucshared) configured with standard (formerly shared) access mode. The table below shows the minimum package version required to enable compatibility.

  | Gem                                               | Condition             | Package                     | Minimum version |
  | ------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------- |
  | [CSV Source](/engineers/csv)                      | Read file with Pandas | `ProphecySparkBasicsPython` | `0.2.44`        |
  | [BigQuery Source and Target](/engineers/bigquery) | None                  | `ProphecyWarehousePython`   | `0.0.9`         |
  | [EmailData](/engineers/email-data)                | None                  | `ProphecyWebAppPython`      | `0.1.2`         |
  | [Seed Source](/engineers/seed)                    | None                  | `ProphecySparkBasicsPython` | `0.2.39`        |

### Fixes

The following are fixes available in this release.

- Selective data sampling mode now works with Databricks UC standard clusters in Scala projects (Python already supported).

### Prophecy Library versions

The following are the newest available Prophecy Library versions in this release.

- ProphecyLibsPython: `1.9.45`

- ProphecyLibsScala: `8.9.0`

## Webinar Recap

This is one of our most feature-packed releases yet. We showcased some of these features in an exclusive, live webinar with our customers. If you missed the webinar, don't worry! Click for the full videos ([EMEA](https://prophecy-1.wistia.com/medias/o48cxfkugm) / [AMER](https://prophecy-1.wistia.com/medias/1nuelrshvg)) and find the slides [here](./img/ProphecyWebinarSlides4_0.pdf).

<div class="wistia_responsive_padding" style={{padding:'56.25% 0 0 0', position:'relative'}}>
<div class="wistia_responsive_wrapper" style={{height:'100%',left:0,position:'absolute',top:0,width:'100%'}}>
<iframe src="https://fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/o48cxfkugm?seo=false?videoFoam=true" title="FullWebinarEMEA" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" class="wistia_embed" name="wistia_embed" msallowfullscreen width="100%" height="100%"></iframe>
</div></div>
