---
title: Prophecy 4.1.1 Extended Maintenance (EM) Release
sidebar_label: Prophecy 4.1.1 EM
id: 4-1-1
description: Release notes for version 4.1.1
tags:
  - release notes
  - changelog
  - EM
---

June 20, 2025

Prophecy 4.1.1.0 is an extended maintenance release. Learn more in [Prophecy versions support](docs/release_notes/version_chart/versions_support.md).

## Features

The following enhancement is available in this release.

- Databricks connections in Prophecy fabrics now accept [service principal](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/admin/users-groups/service-principals) credentials for OAuth.

  Now you can deploy scheduled pipelines using the service principal credentials. To learn more, visit the [Databricks connection](/administration/fabrics/prophecy-fabrics/connections/databricks) documentation.

- You can now fetch and reference the hidden `_metadata` column from input files in [Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/ingestion/file-metadata-column). Spark projects only.

- For target models running on [BigQuery SQL fabrics](/administration/fabrics/sql-fabrics/bigquery), you can now configure overwrite modes to partition by a specific column and appropriate partitions (Added in 4.1.1.1).

- We've added the ability to [reindex your SQL warehouse](/knowledge-graph#indexing) for the knowledge graph. This ensures that Prophecy's AI agent has the latest information about your datasets (Added in 4.1.1.2).

## Fixes

The following fixes are available in this release.

- We updated `tornado` and `jupyter_core` in the Python sandbox to address [CVE-2025-47287](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2025-47287) and [CVE-2025-30167](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2025-30167), respectively.

- [SparkEdge could not authenticate with Artifactory](/administration/self-hosted/configure-sparkedge) when secrets were stored as files because we required the master password to be available as an environment variable. We now support mounting the encrypted master password as a file via a Kubernetes secret.

- Spark project deployment is no longer blocked when you are missing service principal on an unrelated [fabric using Databricks OAuth](docs/administration/fabrics/Spark-fabrics/databricks/databricks.md) (Fixed in 4.1.1.1).

## Prophecy Library versions

The following are the newest available Prophecy Library versions in this release.

- ProphecyLibsPython 1.9.49

- ProphecyLibsScala 8.10.1
