---
title: Prophecy 4.2.3.x
description: Release notes for version 4.2.3
id: 4-2-3
tags:
  - release notes
  - changelog
---

December 8, 2025

## Prophecy for Analysts

### Features {#analyst-features}

The following features are available in this release.

- Prophecy now supports running [data tests](/analysts/data-tests) on Prophecy fabrics. (Previously, data tests were only supported on SQL fabrics.)

- Prophecy lets you enable schema validation for [JSON](/analysts/json) and [XML](/analysts/xml) files in a Source gem. Use schema validation to ensure files conform to a predefined structure before ingesting the data. Schema validation works for all file storage connections.

- The [knowledge graph](/knowledge-graph) indexer now scans all connections in a fabric, not just the SQL warehouse connection. This way, the Agent can access all data from the attached fabric.

- Now, when you configure a chart in a [Prophecy App](/analysts/business-applications) or in the [Data Explorer](/analysts/data-explorer), you can change the colors used in the chart.

## Prophecy for Engineers

### Features {#engineer-features}

The following enhancements are available in this release.

- There have been several improvements to [selective sampling](/engineers/data-sampling):

  - Prophecy can now display the total record count of selected gems.
  - You can now use selective data sampling mode when running pipelines on [Livy](/administration/fabrics/Spark-fabrics/livy) clusters.

### Prophecy Library versions

The following are the newest available Prophecy Library versions in this release.

- ProphecyLibsPython 2.1.7

- ProphecyLibsScala 8.15.1
