---
sidebar_position: 1
id: 2.6.0.0
description: Release notes for 2.6.0.0
title: 2.6.0.0 (February 3, 2023)
tags:
  - release notes
  - changelog
---

### New Features

#### GCP Support

Prophecy now has support for integrating through Databricks Partner Connect on GCP. For example, when Databricks is deployed and running on GCP and integration between Prophecy and Databricks is needed, the user can integrate with Prophecy through Databricks Partner Connect.

#### Interims for Unity Catalog Workspaces

Pipelines running on **UC cluster** now has ability to show interims on all Actions/Tail nodes of the Pipeline. Execution Metrics are now available in shared mode clusters for non-Unity Catalog workspaces.

#### Data Fabric ACL

Support for Data Fabric authorization is added with this release. This feature allows administrators within a team to assign proper access to its team members. For example, only a team’s administrator can perform tasks such as creation and deletion of Data Fabrics.

#### Team-level execution metrics

An administrator will have the option to create the following tables at the time of team creation which are used for storing [Execution Metrics](docs/low-code-spark/execution/execution-metrics.md). The administrator will grant access to the tables accordingly to their team members.

- Pipeline Metrics Table
- Component (Dataset) Metrics Table
- Interim Table

#### Seamless Git Integration with stored credentials

Added the ability to store [Git](docs/metadata/git.md) credentials. The credentials can be shared among projects without re-authenticating.

#### Streaming Pipeline Support (_Beta_)

With this release, Prophecy now support Streaming Pipelines. User can now read data from streaming sources, apply transformations and save it to streaming Targets.

### Updates

#### Union By Name

Added Union by name in [Set Operations](docs/low-code-spark/gems/transform/set-operation.md) Gem. This can be used now to get union by column names when positions are different in two datasets.

### Fixes

#### IDE disconnection issue

Some users were frequently seeing IDE disconnected errors in UI. This used to happen if user is still on UI but not doing any operations. Added handling of pong messages to fix the behaviour.

#### Python code generation taking long time

For big schema's, Prophecy's Python optimiser was taking significant time due to which compilation was delayed.
The new optimization speeds up wide table processing on the UI layer by adding pre-optimization phases. This will try to eagerly evaluate and substitute for preconfigured syntax.  
The compilation time reduced from order of seconds to milliseconds.

#### Blocked log4j dependency

The Scala maven plugin has a log4j dependency that is blocked for some customers. Updated the log4j dependency.
