---
sidebar_position: 1
id: Apr_2023
description: Release notes for April
title: April 2023
tags:
  - release notes
  - changelog
---

## 3.0.0.0 (Apr 26, 2023)

- Prophecy Python libs version: 1.5.0
- Prophecy Scala libs version: 7.0.18

### Features {#UpdatesRelease300}

#### Low-Code SQL

#### Expression Builder

To perform data analysis and manipulation, Spark has provided various functions. These functions enable users to perform various data analysis tasks on their data.
In order to perform complex data analysis tasks, it's important to be able to construct expressions that combine the Spark functions in various ways.
Prophecy has now made this easy with support of **[Expression Builder](./../low-code-spark/expression-builder)**.
Using the Spark Expression Builder can save you time and effort when constructing complex expressions, and can help you to better understand the relationships between different functions and their arguments.
Please refer [here](./../low-code-spark/expression-builder) for Detailed documentation on this feature.

#### Data Quality (_Beta_)

Data quality refers to the accuracy, relevance, completeness, and consistency of data. In today's data-driven world, the quality of data is paramount to making informed decisions. Poor quality data can lead to incorrect decisions, which can have a significant impact on businesses and organizations.

There are several factors that affect data quality. These include data entry errors, data duplication, missing data, inconsistent data, and outdated data. These issues can arise from human error, system errors, or technical issues such as data integration problems.

In Prophecy, you, as a user, can now easily set **Expectations** on your data such as uniqueness, range, and more. You can then schedule these **Expectations** to run at fixed **Schedules**, and receive alerts whenever any mismatch occurs, empowering you to maintain the quality of your data.
Please refer [here](./../low-code-spark/data-quality) for detailed documentation on this feature.

#### Airflow (_Beta_)

Apache Airflow is an open-source platform used to programmatically author, schedule, and monitor workflows.

Airflow allows users to define workflows as DAGs (Directed Acyclic Graphs), where each node in the graph represents a task that needs to be executed.
Tasks can be Data Pipelines in Spark/Python or SQL or scripts. Dependencies between tasks are defined using operators, which are essentially plugins that define how tasks interact with each other.

With Prophecy, you can create and manage Airflow jobs using a visual Drag and drop interface. This allows you to easily design and schedule complex workflows, without having to write any code.
Please refer [here](./../low-code-jobs/airflow) for detailed documentation on this feature.

### Improvements {#UXImprovements300}

#### Support for Databricks ACL

Users can now manage Access to their Databricks jobs via Prophecy UI. This would enable them to Edit and Manage all Databricks Jobs ACL wile configuring a Job in Prophecy UI itself.
Please see below video for example.

#### New UI for Source/Target Gems

Prophecy has revamped the UI for source and target gems to enhance user experience and streamline the process of creating new datasets. The updated design features a Tabular format for quickly filtering by source types and a "popular" section for easy access to frequently used sources. Additionally, while creating a new Source/target, Gem UI now includes a radio button Selection menu for selecting an existing Dataset to use as the source/target.
Please see below video for example

#### New Data Observability Page

Prophecy has updated the UI for the Data Observability page (previously known as Monitoring). You can now monitor the Data quality runs as well as Jobs from this page.
Please refer [here](./../low-code-spark/data-quality#data-observability-view) for more details on this.

#### Option to Attach a cluster and Run from the Gem Screens

User can now Attach to a cluster and run their Pipeline till current Gem from the Gem screen itself. Please see below video for reference.
